knowledge workers dip in and out of a
number of sas applications but when
they're doing work they're very often
doing work in content content really is
all of our businesses
the box content cloud is more than just
georgian collaboration workflow
governance security on the box content
cloud that's best in class
this idea of changing the way that we
work is an important one because we're
never going back to the way that we were
before it's really about the evolution
of the platform
and i really think we're kind of in a
renaissance of sales high-tech sales is
such a highly complex role that it
requires a really broad skill set i like
being in jobs that forced me to be my
best and to learn new things and do more
bucks really ended up being kind of the
perfect place for me
you can lose and you're going to lose
sales you're going to win and you're
going to lose
the key is to every single day do the
very best of what you're capable
you want people in the sales
organization that are going to be able
to grind through when times are hard i
just don't really have any quit in me
and i like to be around people that are
like that
market is great to have you here thanks
for joining us
thanks for having me jason great to be
here
and um
this this session is going to be super
interesting because mark's going to talk
about a topic that i think
so many of us from from founders to
folks at scale to to billions of revenue
thinkers is it possible to re-ignite
growth to re-accelerate growth at scale
we all go through
a rough month a rough quarter
um but box is such a great case study
box has been part of saster since the
beginning uh at the first sester annual
in 2015 our first speaker was aaron levy
he came one week after the ipo
the public markets were still struggling
to understand cloud now we get it
um and box is also so interesting
because and i'm over simplifying and
mark will dig into this but in some ways
box the initial version of box is an
example of of
maybe some tam limitations winning the
market right box was box one in many
ways this sort of
enterprise content management basic use
case and and but became very mature
right and and and grew at mature rates
as it hit
three four hundred million in revenue
but now but now approaching almost at a
billion in air box has re-accelerated
which is fascinating right and and mark
will share why that is
um and and how you do that and it's a
really interesting case study i think we
can all learn about from multi-product
and more um
and mark mark before we get there just
by way of background you did the whole
tour of duty at salesforce before box
right from rvp up to the top is that
right
i did yeah i was fortunate to be there
for a decade both in enterprise and
commercial sales starting as a frontline
manager and into second and third dollar
leadership uh most of my time in the
core kind of sales and service products
but in the final couple of years uh
around part on the marketing cloud so
really had a great experience there and
and learned a ton about how to operate
in the sas world that's uh really helped
us here at box
now salesforce obviously is the most
iconic sas company right um but it's a
big one right it's a 20-something
billion in revenue before we get into
this what we're just maybe one of the
one or top two learnings you took from
salesforce that work i mean box isn't
tiny right but boxes is much smaller
than salesforce what were some of the
top couple
pieces of the playbook or learnings that
you brought into box that helped here
yeah i mean i'm a big believer that
sales leaders have have skills that you
can put in three buckets you know they
have deal skills you generally don't get
promoted unless you can close deals and
make it rain they have people skills
they're often kind of uh people you know
people magnets they have charisma they
can speak on stage at a sales kickoff
and that sort of thing and then they
have strategy and operation skills and
you know really what i learned at
salesforce uh in the years that i was
there i'd strongly argue was the best
you know operated software company on
earth and probably still is today i
really learned that playbook around how
do you go to market how do you operate
in the sas world and that's everything
from carving territories to segmentation
to verticalization uh obr ratios you
know and the like i mean basically we
had the opportunity there uh i was there
from 400 million to about 10 billion to
sort of experiment with and toy with and
change lots of things success allows you
to do that we had lots of failure but
along that kind of a growth path we were
able to absorb those bumps in the road
pretty well and and i think really the
operational side of the sales leadership
role is what i learned there
and then you so you join if you join box
a little over two years ago then you
joined
just before all this fun covered stuff
right before before we get into all of
that right and then again crazy journey
there a crazy journey of will the world
end right after you join right to wow
how is how is distributed work going to
change everything in enterprise right
yeah it's been interesting so i've been
here for two and a half years and uh the
plan was not to be doing this job from
home but that uh those are the cards
that we heard that we were dealt so
we've been on this path to re-accelerate
growth at scale per the for the title of
our talk today and and doing it in this
world which has been uh a really
interesting challenge and i'm uh
incredibly proud of the work the team
has done
okay one quick other question while i
have you and then let's let's absolutely
get into the slides but thinking about
it when when aaron lee vco box was at
saster annual this year in september he
made um a really interesting
answer to questions and i want to get
your opinions from the front line of
sales and i said where are we in this
sort of coveted boost for sas right and
if we look at the public companies like
there's folks like zoomer shopify where
the second covet hit we needed them
right and they saw this rocket ship and
then sort of a return to like
pre-covered growth great growth right
but kind of return
others and collaboration
continue to grow and i asked aaron what
he thought and he made an interesting
comment for all of us doing more
enterprise stuff he's like well
enterprise buyers take three years to
make decisions like big big chunky
decisions right so some of those
happened a week after kovid but a lot of
it is still happening now like if we
made a decision to move to box from
on-prem or sharepoint where we used
before
some some of those decisions are still
being implemented now so in the
enterprise do we have like a couple
years of this coven boost still coming
do you have a sense of that from the
front lines
yeah i mean i i think that uh for us the
booze from kovid was sort of a measured
one so but we certainly have a lot of
customers you know we're in a land and
expand business like most sas companies
we have a lot of customers that purchase
from us departmentally and then at the
start of the pandemic they didn't just
send a part a department home they sent
everyone home so we got a lot of seat
expansion there but for every one of
those accounts that gave us uh seed
expansion uh we certainly have customers
that were in directly impacted
industries so we had we had some
attrition from from customers uh maybe
in travel
that had huge impacts to their business
and the other thing about our software
is that if you're in the office or if
you're at home you kind of use box the
same way you're collaborating with
teammates and with external you know
with external folks on content you do
that the same if you're in your cubicle
in the office as you do when you're at
home it's very different than the zoom
dynamics where it's like when you're in
the office maybe you weren't using it
and then you're using it all the time so
we got somewhat of a lift but i think
what we're seeing this year
is that all of the digital
transformation initiatives that were
back burnered at the start of the
pandemic have now been brought to the
front of the burner so all that sort of
neglected spend all those projects that
were put on hold that organizations are
putting in place to help transform their
business those are going on uh big time
right now and i think that's i think
that's the lift that we're seeing more
so yeah pandemic related lift that's
maybe a more thought that's maybe that
was trying to get it more thoughtful
which is that there's this initial boost
for but then there's this digital
transformation boost that that may take
two to three years to play itself out
right
that doesn't all happen in a week or a
month massive digital transformation but
if that's been pulled ahead by the last
18 months right that could be a good run
for all enterprise cloud vendors for a
few years right that are like boxer in a
position to take advantage of it most
definitely most definitely um another
big dynamic that we're seeing is you
know our friends at octa do their annual
business at work study and the average
enterprise has 175 sas applications
that's crazy so
that's an incredible number because when
i started at salesforce we were having a
conversation with enterprises about
putting in their first app or their
second app so it's pretty incredible
that 175 now so i think the other
dynamic that we're seeing going on is
consolidation of apps so for for many
organizations the cfos and the cios are
just fatigued at the number of apps that
they have in their environment it's not
175 too many but maybe it's 50 or 75 too
many and so we think the consolidation
is definitely along with digital
transformation consolidation is going to
be a big wave in sas in the coming years
that is interesting because that's
always we always see that right and it's
it's almost like this the rebirth of the
suite right to focus on fewer better
vendors and yet best of breed vendors
always seem to
pop up all the time as
the internet changes right
what um
what does it mean what are you seeing on
the front lines in practice what does
that mean like
are
can you can you capture more budget for
box if you can capture some of these
adjacent spaces or
how is it is it they want to concentrate
the same budget and fewer vendors or
who's benefiting and who isn't from that
from that consolidation
well i think that the extra large
vendors will benefit big time as they
did in the client server era and so if
you think about the number one and the
number two cloud investments at the app
layer not the infrastructure layer that
organizations are making in microsoft
and salesforce they will certainly
benefit from consolidation waves and
they'll acquire companies that a lot of
those point solutions uh will get
gobbled up in their portfolios as we've
been seeing for years
we we would be sort of an upper middle
sized cloud if you will and maybe a
large sort of a cloud and and so for us
uh we're in this space where we can be a
consolidate or or we can be consolidated
and certainly we prefer the opportunity
to be a consolidate or if we have a
credible um path to
help a cio sort of shrink spin in their
sas portfolio and so if you think about
us in our core
content cloud market you know this year
as you know we added electronic
signature to the platform and that's a
really exciting move for us because you
know it's our belief that electronic
signature should be part of your content
cloud not another app that you have to
go buy and so i think that for us it's
going to be a combination of lots of net
new wins as we broaden the portfolio
around content oriented use cases and
then massive improvement in our renewal
rates as we give customers more and more
reasons to stay with the content cloud
yeah all right well let's dig into this
because renewal rates and growth in nr
right have been a key to reigniting
growth at box hasn't they and we'll talk
through some of this but nr has gone way
up too hasn't it
it has yeah has gone up arrows gone up
uh retention's gone up and and all of
that sort of ends with you know if
you're leading a sales organization into
higher productivity rates you know all
of us and sas if you're a sales leader
you're getting pressure from your ceo
from the board to step on the gas on
hiring and never stop hiring and
certainly we are
one of those class of companies but if
you don't make your reps productive then
you have unhealthy attrition rates and
then you end up with an unfavorable mix
of ramping versus ramped reps you really
need to solidify your ramp reps and get
them to stay and in order to do so they
have to be successful so over the last
couple of years we've seen uh really
strong improvement in our productivity
rates also the participation rate which
is another important measurement and
what i want to do today is share a
little bit on how we've reaccelerated
growth at scale with one of the end
results being this productivity per head
rate and so just a quick snapshot you
know many of you know box but
we have about a little over a hundred
thousand customers and about 67 percent
of the fortune 500 and we are used for
we're used by companies in really all
industries of all sizes all around the
world but organizations that have highly
sensitive content really rely on the box
content cloud to secure that content and
allow organizations to collaborate upon
it internally and externally and we've
been on this journey to re-accelerate
growth jason mentioned aaron being at
the first stasser right after the ipo so
we ipod about six years ago and because
we're a subscription business you know
by definition we're growing but the
growth rate has been on a bit of a
decline for a few years and this is the
fiscal year where we've been successful
in turning that around having three
consecutive quarters of growth our most
recent one at 14
now there's many uh many of you out
there are growing at numbers that are
way larger than 14
but us taking the growth rate uh quarter
on quarter from 11 to 14 this year is a
really great a
a really great change for us at this
scale
and you know the plan is for us to
continue bringing that growth rate up as
we go forward and what i want to do
today is share a few of the areas that
um a few things that we've done to drive
that growth rate so starting with number
one it's really been about mastering the
message so if you have a growth rate
that is in the decline or it's not where
the leadership team and the board wants
it it generally is seen as a sales
problem when arr slows it's generally a
sales problem and very often it is uh
those improvements to make in the sales
organization i generally think of as
kind of a no finish line business like
that work is never done we can always be
doing better in terms of the way that we
orchestrate the sales motion but you
really do have to master the message you
have to have a repeatable sales motion
and part of having a repeatable sales
most is having a repeatable message that
you're bringing out into the market so
this is the year that we reposition the
company around the content cloud and
it's just very simple messaging that
does what it says and says what it does
and also the market has been trained to
think of these kind of named clouds you
know when i say sales cloud you know who
i'm thinking of when i say data cloud
you know i'm thinking of and so it's
language that's been well established in
the market and it really helps us just
in a very crisp and clear message share
that this is a different thing than
maybe the personal storage account that
you have that's attached to your email
or other sorts of content storage
environments and then it opens up an
opportunity for us to share our roadmap
and share all of the features that are
part of a modern content cloud including
things like electronic signature that i
just covered
now mark sometimes this is just on that
point just i totally get the simplicity
of the of the content cloud right
sometimes i think folks we can be a
little cynical about this we can be like
does this really make a difference like
box when you join box was still at 400
million or i mean it's a
well-established brand right so
from the front lines what before this
change in in messaging because you're
saying it worked you picked it number
one so obviously it did work what were
you saying before what was the team
saying before and how did that how did
that change um in practice
i think um a lot of the underlying
message was similar but from a messaging
standpoint yes we were we were really on
this category shifting journey so the
market that we helped create became
known as efss
um electronic file sync and share and we
were helping to evangelize sort of the
new cloud version of that category
around cloud content management and so
we're having lots of conversations about
this sort of journey from the old market
efs to the modern market being ccm cloud
content management and that from a
category shifting and shaping standpoint
really makes a lot of sense and there's
a lot of merit to it
but
you know from my experience when we
would talk about cloud content
management for seasoned it buyers that
maybe went down the ecm path enterprise
content management and implemented those
client server tools uh that created a
little bit of confusion because then
they would want to sort of compare the
feature set of the old established 1990s
ecm category with this new cloud content
management version and then you're
constantly in this like never-ending
feature comparison of an old model
versus a new model which i don't think
was as effective as a crisp and clear
message around a content cloud and was
it when you would go back when as you
change this messaging and you would go
out and reach out to existing and new
customers is it just to simplify it was
it easier to get these conversations
when you said let's talk about the
content cloud it sounds a lot simpler
than the 78 acronyms of ecm into dccs um
uh although for old-timers the acronyms
may be compelling right but easier
simple question is easier to get those
conversations and i think you said yes
right
it is i mean listen i can explain
content cloud to my father who owns a
furniture store in san francisco it
makes sense
it's repeatable it plays in all markets
in all segments and that the message has
done very well in japan so it really it
translates into different languages and
it's much easier for us to enable the
team on
got it interesting learning
all right so number two is moving to
multi-product which is obviously a topic
that's covered very well at this event
and past events
but we've had a lot of success in
launching new products as part of the
content cloud and then getting our
customers to adopt those products so if
our customers just use us to store
content then they're not getting all of
the value out of the content cloud and
they don't renew at the same rate so
it's really important that we get
customers to adopt the whole product
portfolio and when they do so their net
retention is much higher they renew more
they buy more et cetera so we've been on
a really nice growth curve in terms of
selling more and more
of these advanced products and that's
not just the sales motion that's the
whole go to market team that's our csms
that's our renewal reps that's the
marketing team it's the whole team
working together to make sure that we
get huge uptake of all of our add-on
products
so let's just click on that one for a
second if you don't mind i think i'm a
little bit dated but i think a few
quarters ago there was some box metrics
saying that like single product nrr was
something like in the 90s or mid 90s i
might have that wrong but the multi was
approaching like 120 whatever it was the
gap was very wide right i should pull
that up
um
and so
great we i think we've all learned the
value of multi-product right at scale
but from the again from the front lines
not to over use this term but sometimes
it's complicated like you don't want to
confuse customers or you don't want to
jam products down their throats that
they don't want right too many products
right so what does this mean in practice
how did sales change how do you sell
them more than one product together so
that it's a win-win and it's not that ae
constantly trying to to sell them
something that they don't want or have
another vendor for like how did you
implement this in practice so that
there's synergy in the products
yeah well um
importantly i think i i think as a sas
provider one one of the delicate things
from a product management packaging
standpoint is if we're coming out with
some new breakthrough product what do we
include in the core offering and put you
have to have increasing value in your
core offering over time
uh that's an important thing you can't
just your customers are not going to
renew at high rates if the core offering
doesn't change so and that's really the
power of multi-tenancy in cloud is that
it gets better and better and better and
then what are things that
legitimately should be maybe another
skew that's something that you could
charge more for and so um there's a lot
of art and science in in figuring out
that and i think that we've kind of
gotten to a good place on it so and then
and then um with customers themselves
you know we do all the things that that
all sas companies do which are that you
know we we mine the installed base for
uh different user behaviors that would
maybe make them have a higher propensity
to buy one of these new products uh we
work very closely with the installed
base and we advisory boards where we we
work with them on the roadmap to make
sure that we're building things that are
of value to them and that either
they would really like to see in the
core offering or uh they have or they
have additional budget so we're opening
up new areas of tam and maybe they're
going to turn down another tool and and
then buy something additional from us or
turn down another tool because we're
giving them more value in the core of
box so there's a few different ways that
it sort of shows up but i think it's all
about really understanding what those
latent needs are in the in the installed
base and with that new customers and
really deeply understanding it sounds
incredibly simple but deeply
understanding why do customers buy and
why do they leave and i think over the
last couple of years as we've been
turning the growth engine around we've
gotten much deeper appreciation of that
and you use does the sales team or maybe
sales success i don't know if you own
the post sales piece too but do you what
are the tools used to use qbrs or what
other things do you do besides the data
to discover customer needs for
additional products without you know
overselling them how do you manage that
how do you manage that line how do you
how do you have those conversations
um so a number of ways so the first
thing is um is that uh you know we're
very much a use case oriented sale which
many many sas offerings are but i mean
the truth of the matter is is there we
don't get any inbound rfps for companies
that are going out to bid for a content
cloud so we have to go into our
customers and into our prospects and we
have to identify high value use cases
that are a good fit for the box content
cloud and so it takes a certain level of
technical acumen and business acumen on
uh uh amongst our go to market teams in
order to do that successfully and then
with our installed customers we do do
qvr's uh we call them sbr so our our our
our full extended account teams meet
with our with our customers on a
quarterly basis and we do the standard
stuff we go through what their usage is
which products they're using which ones
they're not we help them understand how
they can get more value out of their
current investment because if they're
not getting value out of their current
investment there's no opportunity for
them to expand that investment so we do
all those sorts of things then along
with that uh especially you know right
now because we have such an exciting
roadmap we will brief them on our
roadmap to get their feedback and then
as they're doing their strategic
planning and their it architecture they
can make decisions about other areas
where maybe they would want to expand
box or maybe they can have some cost
avoidance by not buying another tool
yep and one last one on this and then we
can go on but this is such an
interesting topic you brought it up
before this this tension and it's a good
tension between providing more value to
the base right to get those renewals up
and especially from the sales
perspective but others wanting to
monetize these additional products and
features right um don't don't i get all
of this from my existing
you know
versus yeah what have you guys learned
at box what kind of how have you have
there been our good-natured arm
wrestling debates you aaron product
everybody like how do you decide where
that line is
um and and how do you and you know
because sales wants it both ways you
have your goal is overall you've got to
grow the nr right you've got to grow all
of it so you have you have two two irons
in this fire don't you as the cro
yes um yeah so i'm i'm responsible for
the overall revenue number and i think
um so first of all we don't have really
a debate about it but as a as a
leadership team
aaron and dylan our cfo and really the
whole team is fully aligned on how we
make these decisions with with no
conflict at all and i think it really
has to do with what the state is of your
business so if you're in a smaller
company and you're growing at 50 and 60
a year and you have really high renewal
rates
then you should be looking at both how
do we go win more logos because clearly
the market is telling you that there's
market there for the taking and then you
should also be looking at uh as as we
have this installed base that's growing
and growing and growing and they're very
successful in the renewing high rates we
should probably find some more stuff to
sell them so you might be moving into
some new product areas but if you're in
a business like ours that's at scale
where you had pad as an operator board
uh you have growth that's maybe on the
decline and you have renewal rates that
are not where you want them
then you really got to pull back from
that kind of add-on skew motion and you
got to figure out how do we really hold
on to this customer base
and that's a combination of giving them
more value in their current investment
that's going to drive up renewal rates
and also helping them understand what
that roadmap plan is so that they can
build you into their future strategy
good
all right are we moving on we're going
bigger going home next now these are
such great topics
let's go big or go home
so big deals you know as the head of
sales i get asked about the big deals in
every board meeting and and we put a lot
of focus on these big deals um and
really i'm i'm about in sas i'm about
big accounts so sometimes i think that
organizations can over rotate on big
deals
and and certainly if you're you know
using salesforce to run your sales
organization it really you know gets you
to look at those things the dashboards
and pipeline reports but what you really
want in sas is you want big accounts so
uh if you're in a land and expand motion
most of us are then you want your
customers or your prospects to join as a
smaller or medium or a large client of
course you want them to to join you know
as large as possible but sometimes
they'll start with a phased approach or
with a poc and what you really want over
time is to make them wildly successful
so they become a big account the big
deal in my experience is sort of that's
the vendor speak like us ringing the
bell on a big deal but in the customer
speak is them being a big and successful
account where they're going to renew at
high rates because they've been
successful so uh but that said big deals
are important and so we've put a lot of
focus on big deals and i think that you
know this this 100k metric that we
report to the street the reason why it's
important is it is an indicator that
customers are using us for high value
use cases as i discussed earlier and
then they're making a larger larger
investment in box because they're
getting the appropriate value and so in
this most recent quarter we drove 56
percent increase in 100k plus deals
which was a fantastic result and i
really think that that is just a great
indicator of how this content cloud
message is resonating in the market and
we're going to continue to see those
results over time i believe
and are these when you say new deals
are these brand new customers or are
they or these include folks you've
migrated up to 100k deals
uh these are 100k net uh these are 100k
new arr deals both in the installed base
and with net new customers got it yeah
and this is not their total spend uh so
we have you know uh many many customers
that spend with us over 100k you know
you could have a 80k customer that
spends 20 more that's not in this number
for yeah just an inch a couple just
questions i'm curious about when i i
don't have the number when i when when
aaron came to saster annual i was
surprised i don't know what numbers he
threw out but i was surprised how much
of the box bigger customers still come
from smaller deals right that that that
grow over time right i was under the
assumption that box says after whatever
15 16 years
the box name was so established that i
could just send my cro in with his
briefcase
and just close the deals but a lot of
them are still being grown up right and
so
how do you manage some of those when you
have a culture that's big deal culture
right and i love it i've come from it
it's exciting how do you manage some of
those team tensions versus not breaking
things right because not everybody's
ready to sign that contract next week
right how do you manage those tensions
across your team and maybe even in
segmenting your team
yeah well i mean so like many sas
companies we sell from smb to mid market
to large enterprise so we have deal
mixes that are all over the place yeah
and you know at over a hundred thousand
customers uh you know the the raw number
of customers individual customers is
outweighed in our smb segment but the
line share the revenue comes from our
enterprise business and so it's a it's a
pretty healthy mix and uh but if you i
think the question is sort of pointed
more at the enterprise business than in
the enterprise business
i'm a believer that you have to have a
really healthy uh mix of deals in your
pipeline and in your closed results
small medium and large size deals and
and if you're in a business that's
really big deal oriented
then it's basically uh you know it's
hero ball right and so you're making and
missing quarters based on a small number
of large and extra large transactions
and that is a roller coaster ride that
personally i don't i don't prefer
i really like to have a business where
you sort of make the number or maybe you
make 90 of the number on a mix of small
and medium and maybe large size
transactions and then those large and
extra large deals are layered in on top
for over performance and
and i think that you know a few years
back we were really really indexed on
these kind of extra-large deals and we
and a lot of the brand name uh brand
names on the logo side you saw earlier
are representative of sort of large and
extra large deals but as it turns out if
a customer does five 100k deals and they
end up with a spend at 500k or they
start at 500k they're still a 500k
client and you really need to
to build you know sort of a go-to-market
motion and a reward system and a
recognition system that you recognize
those deals somewhat equally because in
the end um they're delivering the same
revenue over time and you know that
customer that buys in 100k bytes they
may end up being more successful because
they ramped up their deployment than the
customer that takes on so much upfront
and then maybe if it was a political
purchase the people that didn't want to
make the purchase may be trying to force
fail the prod fail force failure of the
project so if they can prove they were
right you were wrong
you know it's interesting maybe just
listening i i this this idea of
it sounds like when you came in or maybe
just before in some ways you might have
de-stressed the organization
by by not having one one one big deal
having to make the month or the week or
the quarter and you may almost need to
bring the the bar down just a little bit
in terms of deal size to make that
happen right otherwise it's constant
stress right
so this 100k thing
it may be that to drive to larger deals
to go big and go home you might have to
lower it to 100k to count as a big deal
right so the culturally going to your
point that's a victory and you build
that up over time you don't force
everyone to to jump on the million
dollar deal land mine right and then
we're sitting here december 15th i'm
sure there's 10 ceos that are going to
watch this that are going to miss their
plan for the quarter because that that
800k deal pushed to the first week of
january right well i mean to be clear i
love big deals and the bigger the better
so make no mistake i i'm about big deals
and and and i and i and i embrace the
you know why would i chase a 100k deal
when it takes the same work for me to
close a million dollar deal i'm only
going to go after the million dollar
deal i understand that mindset but the
problem is if you don't close that
million dollar deal then you're going to
get fired that's the that's the economic
reality of the business that we've
chosen so it's better to build up a
portfolio of deals yes and i think that
some of that sort of that sort of
elephant hunting approach to selling
software is a little bit of a data in an
old-school model and the reason why for
those of us that were in client server
is that you know when you do a big
client server deal you need that deal to
be as big as possible you want to back
up the software truck because they are
going to struggle greatly with the
implementation and they're not going to
buy anything else from you so the deal
has to be as big as possible but if
you're in sas and you have csms like we
all do and you have products that are
easy to adopt and easy to implement and
fulfill the promise of sas that we're in
the third decade of it then it doesn't
matter if they start small or medium or
large you got to make them wildly
successful and then they're going to buy
more over time because because they're
successful and they're getting value
from your platform and so like i said
it's great when they enter with the
largest size deal possible but it
doesn't matter how they enter we we want
them to be wildly successful and we want
them to be be a big account not
necessarily just a big deal
okay one last question on this and i
want to hit our renewals next but so
you're doing a hundred of these a
quarter now roughly right looking at the
slide um that's a lot but it's what it's
enough though that even as a cro you can
have a sense of these hundred deals
right you can pull up your crm and look
into them
just
strategically how do you help the team
balance this so a a big logo comes in
right it could just to finish this point
it could be a million it could be 100k
what guidance or rules or parameters do
you help the team to decide to get as
much revenue out of that deal as
possible without breaking it how do you
how do you help manage these hundred
deals
well we don't just manage these hundred
we manage a couple thousand others as
well
a thousand in the pipeline but yeah how
do you how do you how do you guide the
team to maximize without breaking this
this piece
yeah i mean so first of all um we we
don't have a culture of doing unnatural
things to try to hit some kind of a deal
target so
uh i will have approvals for deals come
up all the time and and an account team
will say you know this deal is sort of
naturally an 85 or a 90k deal do you
want me to try to push it to a hundred
and yeah that's not what we're about
here we're out we're about the customer
being successful and and i've seen so
many times that if you get a customer to
buy more software then they're really
ready to uh you may be excited when you
ring the bell but you're going to pay
later so we don't do any unnatural
things to try to hit what what are
relatively artificial thresholds we we
need to
uncover high-value use cases we need to
build a business case jointly with our
customers that allows them to get a yes
when they ask for money and then we have
to focus all of our resources on making
them successful i mean that's really
what our business model is and then over
time they'll buy more so we don't
there's no funny business with us trying
to hit these sort of deal thresholds and
then in terms of like how do you break
that number down because it's a hundred
now but you know there's gonna be a time
when that number is 200 and 300 and you
just have to break it down by your team
so we have growth targets on these i
mean we don't it's not tied to comp
plans our comp plans are really based on
error uh primarily and on renewals uh
but we do have sort of soft targets so
we can break this number down and make
it more manageable
got it
cool well let's talk about renewals next
because big progress here under your
leadership right
yeah i mean i think this is probably one
of the biggest changes that we've made
and um
and and really it's a show before we get
here i'm a little colorblind what's
going on with these colors here i i see
the thing dude okay excuse me what's
going on in this slide
what we're what we're trying to show
here in the slide for people that can
see colors is that we were in a place
where if you think of all of the
customer facing uh uh people at box we
call our employees boxers all of us
boxers if if you ask people two and
three years ago who who is responsible
for renewals most people would say the
renewals team
small team
that's the blue and now we're in a world
where all 2000 plus boxers and that
doesn't matter if you're in recruiting
or if you're in product or if you're in
hr or if you're in sales or renewals or
customer success everyone understands
that they're on the renewals team
because renewals are the most important
motion in sas and it's in fact the most
important motion in subscription you
know when you sign up for time magazine
and you buy a two-year subscription they
start putting that postcard in the mail
to you immediately even though you
bought for two years because it's the
most important part of our business and
so we did put renewals in the comp plan
since i joined box
but the thing that i was really vocal
about is that we can move it into the
comp plan and it's a relatively small
measure in their variable compensation
but it's really the cultural change and
the mindset change that was necessary
that we really needed everyone in the
company if you're if you're in the
product organization you have to
understand that you need to make
products that are easy to adopt and that
customers are going to get value from
and when they do so we'll have higher
renewal rates and if you're if you're in
sales you have to know that when you're
selling a deal that the customer has a
credible path to a successful
implementation because if they don't
have a good implementation plan they
won't be successful they won't renew
they won't buy more and so we really
have a whole company mindset around that
we're all in renewals team you know i've
stood in all hands meetings for last two
and a half years and almost every one of
them i say rave your hand if you're on
the renewals team and then get everyone
to raise their hand so it's been a big
and very very positive shift for our
company
well with smaller companies what i what
i like to do is make sure that everyone
knows that nr is a top three metric
because that aligns people in smaller
organizations at boxes scale what did
this mean in practice how did you make
how how did you come in and get more
folks on team blue like what what
besides and we can talk a little bit
about this this this tweak to sales comp
plans but that's not really what you're
hitting here you're getting all the
functional areas just to to buy in how
did you do this in practice uh so i
think i it was the renewals team and
just to crack my color in here the
customer success team that we're kind of
bearing the brunt of renewals yeah and
the rest of the organization knew it was
important but but um
but they weren't they weren't they
weren't like in their hearts and minds
understanding that i have a role to play
in this so i think it was just really
repeating the message and then getting
alignment across the executive team and
and whether that was our chief product
officer or our ceo aaron our cfo dylan
our ceo my boss steph like all of us
just repeating this over and over and
over again that we're all in the
renewals team and everyone highlighting
over and over and over again how
important it is for customers to be
successful and when they are successful
they were new and so we and we did make
the comp changes we did change all of
our operational practices around the
around the way we measure renewals uh
you know all the calls and meetings that
we have to review those dashboards and
hold teams accountable and have
interlocks and have clarity on where
that number is and where we have risk i
think that the because we had a
relatively small team that really was
waking up every day and thinking about
renewals because of our book of business
they could only look out you know maybe
three or five or six months at their
book of business in which case it might
be too late to have an impact on the
renewal and now because we've got more
people thinking about it all the time
we're now talking about renewals that
are 12 and 18 months out and that's a
very healthy place to be in because with
that kind of a window if you have an
account that's maybe at risk then you
have enough time that you can effect
some change in that account
yeah just tactically on this because
internet and then let's definitely talk
about a productivity before at a time
but
that little piece of sales comp that's
tied to renewals right um just one i i
love this idea as as a founder but i
find these secondary or small pieces the
sales team forgets about it
right it's really the uh
how does that work in practice and does
the sales team
own the upsells too is that where does
that fit between these do they have that
incentive to keep doing the upsells or
is it or or how do they how do they own
that that that customer relationship
over time
yeah we made no change to that part of
the comp plan so the comp plan is based
on on uh on new arr
and that is both can be achieved through
bringing on a new customer or by adding
on products or additional seats to an
existing customer and that's the
majority of the comp plan and that's how
it has to be if you want to be a growth
company and then there's a smaller
component of a comp plan that we've now
put at renewals um it's it's a
relatively small comparison component in
comparison the new ar component
but it's an important one it's by the
way the same comp plan we were under at
salesforce for almost all the years that
i was there uh and so that's the change
that we made but it's a relatively small
component and you know you take taxes
out of it and and then you look at an
overall renewal book of business that's
being managed by a single rep um and
that individual renewal doesn't really
make much of a difference for them and
that's why i think it's important to
have a mindset and a cultural change
because the actual comp change
is not really as big i think as people
think when you when you really break it
down kind of deal by deal got it but so
they are they are still responsible for
um like uh bringing a net new customer
on making them wildly successful and
selling them more over time so they do
stay with their accounts uh once they're
installed
cool all right a productivity this is
super interesting changes that you
brought in right from your learnings
yeah yeah so we we had a lot of
improvement here over the last couple of
years in in next fiscal year hoping to
see further improvement uh one of the
things that we did is we have a
world-class recruiting team and we work
with our recruiting team to approve our
hiring rubric we had a lot of learnings
over the years on what's the profile of
reps that do well here at box as i
mentioned earlier uh we're not getting
any rfps for a content cloud so uh we
really have to have sellers that have
high business acumen and understand how
to go inside of the organization and
navigate both the it organization and
the line of business to find those high
value use cases and that takes a certain
kind of a seller so
we rebuilt the hiring rubric so that we
can find more of those types of
world-class sellers and then we made
huge investments in enablement and you
know sales enablement is uh an area that
has more attention now than ever i
talked earlier about that sort of never
stop hiring always step on the gas
mantra that all sas companies sort of
live by but what organizations are
realizing now is that if you don't make
those reps successful then they're going
to a trit and you'll have that unhealthy
mix between ramp and ramping reps and so
it's been interesting for me you know in
sas board meetings now i i don't think
and you know you correct me if you uh
tell me if you agree or disagree but
eight years ago i don't think sales
enablement was a topic in a sas board
meeting and now maybe three to four
years ago it wasn't talked about enough
right right but now it's every single
one ever like like sas boards have
gotten really really smart about hiring
metrics about productivity per head
metrics participation rate what is your
enablement program what's the mix that
you have of ramping versus ramp reps
these are not things that were in board
meetings not that long ago and that's
because everyone understands that it's
not just about hiring it's about overall
head count the mix of ramp and ramping
and what your productivity per head is
so in order to do that right one of the
big big levers is enablement so we have
a wonderful enablement team that manages
both of our new hire boot camp but all
of our ongoing training and we've made
huge investments there over the last
couple of years that are now showing
returns and then uh really the engine
room for everything that you do from an
enablement standpoint has to start in
product marketing
not the skills-based enablement but all
of the product and messaging and use
case and all those solutions all that
stuff really has to start in product
marketing and so chris kohler our our
cmo he's made huge investments in the
pmm team and then the pmm team really
creates all that content and then in
partnership with enablement gets it out
to our team so i would say those three
things were kind of the biggest levers
to these improvements and the
productivity per head numbers and 68
means what exactly what does that mean
on this chart uh that's uh the
productivity per head over over two
years has gone up 68
got it so effectively their yield their
bookings right how much they close per
head count right
that's right that's fairly massive 68
percent
even
even 20 would be huge at scale right 68
is a lot of change
uh yeah it's a it's a pretty big number
i mean we're not gonna be able to
sustain that kind of
[Laughter]
it's a it's a growth
stat for me to put in this presentation
got it
it is um and that first one's
interesting
you said this a couple times it's really
resonating with me about there's not
like 10 000 rfps out there looking for
this content cloud or that that that
might surprise people right um
fox has its challenges but it's in it
it's in a 20-year-old category you'd
think there would be more rfps more
budgets right but you're still you still
have to fight for budget right you still
have to create budget of these
organizations right
and so
how do you i get what you're saying how
do you screen for these folks because a
lot of i'll tell you a lot of aes that
join big brands they want to pick up the
phone and close that's why they join big
brands they want to go to number one not
sales is never easy as we know but they
want all the benefits of a brand right
um helping them in the sales process um
but you're looking for you're looking
for almost startup type folks right
folks that are product savvy that are
smart that can can talk the talk right
well i don't know overstate how hard it
is we do have a good install base right
we're approaching a billion dollars of
revenue so we have 100 000 customers so
every one of our aes has an installed
base and these are these are uh these
are folks that they can call up and they
know who box is and there's always
opportunities for seed expansion and for
upgrades within those accounts so
there's a lot of that uh my comments
around we don't get rfps for new for
content clouds that's sort of a net news
standpoint so got it we have to go
create awareness and that's both a
marketing effort and a sales effort we
have to go create awareness for what a
content cloud is uh because not everyone
knows that they need one but make no
mistake every enterprise on earth needs
a content class for sure especially in a
world today with ransomware and all of
these secure assets that we're all
working with and then if you think about
what's going on the market now i talked
earlier about the number one and the
number two big cloud investments you
know almost every enterprise on earth is
doing a major microsoft o365 project and
a major salesforce project and these are
often multi-year investments you know
i've met with many cios of large
financial services institutions where
they're doing 100 million dollar
investment in in microsoft and 100
million dollar investment in salesforce
and these are investments that in my
opinion are almost in conflict with one
another these are like tectonic plates
that are coming towards one another
because these two clouds don't work
together and the most the most um common
integration paradigm that you see with
salesforce is integrating the customer
master to other systems so take the
customer master integrate it to erp so
that your billing system will send out
invoices to the same to the right place
right but there's no reason why you
would want to move that data over to
o365 but the but the data that you do
want to move back and forth and you want
to do it seamlessly and you want to do
it securely is the content and so what
customers are finding today is that
they've got a little bit of a rat's nest
from a content standpoint with these two
clouds because they've got the onedrive
sharepoint
um you have the onedrive sharepoint
world in microsoft and teams and then
you've got the salesforce environment
with multiple content stores and now
another one with slack documents and we
can really be a unifying force between
those cloud investments to resolve the
friction store the content in one place
have best in class security on it and
then access that content in either one
of those mega clouds yep
cool and just one last question with the
training and and improved product
marketing and the hiring rubric
i i'm sure the answer is yes but
do you do you have a you have a much
higher percent of the team hitting quota
now right um yeah and and and what's
your philosophy what in an ideal world
what percent of team would hit quota 80
110 uh what how do you think about it as
a leader what do you want it what what
is what is that number if you if you do
enablement and hiring right how good can
you do in terms of hitting quota
yeah well i mean it depends um
uh it's it's a good question so first of
all uh yeah the the percentage of reps
that are hitting plan or the percentage
of reps that are at 50 or 75 percent we
measure it really closely across across
uh quadrants those numbers have all gone
up year on year in orders of magnitude i
can't share that data here but they've
gone up significantly um i think the
answer to your question around what
percentage of the team should hit quota
really depends on what your growth rate
is so if you're if you're in a business
where you're hiring 30 and 40
more reps per year
then it's going to be pretty hard to
have really high entertainment numbers
against full quota against ramping quota
maybe you can and that sort of thing but
in a business like ours where we're not
hiring you know 40 50 more reps per year
i really want to see sort of 60 to 70
percent of the reps making the number
because we are definitely hiring and we
and when we do have people leave the
company so i think that's sort of a
healthy 60 to 70 percent but i
definitely want to carve territories
and and have opportunity for performance
at 100
i want every every single rep on the
team to have a credible path to to plan
based on the addressable market that's
in their patch and so we put a lot of
effort into making sure that we create
fair and balanced and equally
distributed patches across each one of
our segments so that everyone has a
credible path to plan
cool well this is great let's we'll hit
the key takeaways and maybe grab one or
two questions we have but
such an incredible reminder we forget we
just like we we didn't even talk about
sales enablement a few years ago right
we forget
that we can always invest in more in our
sales team the roi is so high there
right even if you don't know what else
to do
making your reps better always works
doesn't it and this is like this
incredibly i mean you can't do 68
forever as you said but it's an
incredibly visceral example of of that
investment working right in in the
salesforce
yeah
yeah so a few key takeaways um if if
growth is slowing if you're listening to
this maybe you have a desire to
re-accelerate growth in your
organization so the first thing i would
say is that if they if you have a growth
problem it's probably being described as
a sales problem and there probably are
problems in your sales organization but
they're probably not the only problem so
i would find out what the root cause is
and then it's a very delicate um uh sort
of razor's edge to walk on as the sales
leader to to get the organization on
board with what are the problems outside
of sales that are maybe creating a
growth problem for us so
definitely find out what the root cause
is and then get alignment across the
organization on what that root cause is
and then uh secondly um takeaway would
be that renewals are the most important
motion in sas they are the growth engine
if you don't have a really really strong
renewals motion it's very very hard to
drive growth and then lastly sales
productivity is paramount if you don't
have high performing reps high
participation rate high productivity
rates are increasing productivity rates
then you will have high attrition in
your sales organization and if you have
high sale attrition in your sales
organization then you have an unhealthy
mix of ramping versus ramped reps and
really the way that you drive high
levels of performance is by having fully
ramped reps that are productive at high
rates and so those would be my top
takeaways got it uh well this was an
incredible story mark thanks for all the
time and the deep dive on the questions
and um
i know the next two and a half years
will have its challenges but pretty
pretty pretty incredible run here right
in terms of uh uh accelerating the ship
uh and uh it is it is incredible to see
that with
better sales processes better training
multi-product right focus on renewals
going from a sorry our number is 11 to
14 on a percentage basis it's awesome
right that that percentage basis is huge
it's a huge amount of impact in a
handful of quarters right so
um it should be inspiring to everyone
that it can be done right
yeah we're really proud of the team it's
been a whole company effort to to get us
turned around and on a and on a growth
path and uh you know now we're on that
sprint to a billion and beyond and i'm
thrilled to be a part of it i'm excited
for the billion party mark thanks thanks
for joining us and uh appreciate all
your time
thanks for having me
[Music]
you